[chore] move package tests from contrib repo to this repo (#604)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases: scripts/package-tests/README.md

# Build and test deb/rpm/apk packages

## Prerequisites

Tools:

- [Go](https://go.dev/)
- [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/)
- [Podman](https://podman.io/)
- make

## How to build and test

> To build the collector linux packages, a few steps are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build the Collector Linux packages, a few steps are required:
```

> - Run `make generate` to (re-)generate sources and goreleaser files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run `make generate` to (re-)generate sources and GoReleaser files
```

- Go to the distribution folder that you want to build (under the `distributions` folder)
- Run `goreleaser release --snapshot --clean --skip sbom,sign,archive,docker`
    - This will build a full release with all architectures and packaging types into the `dist` folder inside your

>       current folder. (We can skip many parts of the release build that we don't need)

Reviewer: I don't understand the comment about skipping parts. Who is 'we'? How can these parts be skipped? Why are they not needed?

Author: we as in the users :)
many of the goreleaser steps can be skipped for the package tests as they are not needed for those.

Reviewer: Thanks for clarifying! So this comment is also intended for developers running the tests locally then?

Author: I updated the wording slightly to hopefully make it a bit clearer

>     - If you run into `unmarshal` errors, start to remove the parts that goreleaser complains about. This likely happens
>       due to a missing goreleaser pro license and therefore feature that you can't use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - We use GoReleaser Pro only features in CI. If you want to run this locally and you run into `unmarshal` errors, 
    you may have to remove the parts that goreleaser complains about or use a pro license.
```
